Roku Resource Monitor session file specification
Developers can follow this specification to build a custom resource monitoring tool that analyzes the memory, CPU, and SceneGraph node usage metrics collected with the Roku Resource Monitor . This specification describes the data types and structure of a monitoring session file (.JSON) that has been exported from the Roku Resource Monitor.
This specification has been updated to support Roku Resource Monitor 4.0.
The v1 version of this spec and the session files generated by the previous versions of the Roku Resource Monitor (v1.0 and v1.1) have been deprecated.
File name
The name of an exported Roku Resource Monitor file has the following syntax: <channel-name>_<device-name>_<unix-timestamp>.json .
Data types
The fields in the monitoring file may be one of the following data types:
Data type	Definition
string	Includes alphanumeric and special characters
number	Includes integer and fractional numbers.
bool	A true/false value.

File structure
A monitoring session file contains the following objects (listed in order):
Object	Description
device	The name, model, serial number, and OS version of the test device.
channel	The ID, name, and version of the test app.
metadata	The unique ID, timestamp, and version of the monitoring file.
session	A stream of multiple entries of the following types: static . The background and foreground DRAM usage limits (for supported devices only; this field is set to "null" on unsupported devices). live . The resource usage statistics. This contains arrays of objects for the following metrics: channel_system_memory_usage , channel_cpu_usage , channel_graphics_memory_usage , channel_graph_metrics, graphics_rendering_frame_rate, sgrendezvous and fw_beacons .

Device information
The device object contains the following fields that provide information about the test device used for the monitoring session:
Name	Type	Description	Example
device_name	string	The device-friendly name.	"Roku Express"
model_number	string	The device model number.	"3930X"
serial_number	string	The device serial number.	"X00400CS3EMP"
software_version	string	The software version installed on the device.	"23.0.0"
software_build	number	The software version build installed on the device.	991

Channel information
The channel object contains the following fields that provide information about the test app used for the monitoring session:
Name	Type	Description	Example
id	string	The unique identifier of the app	"581251" or "dev"
version	string	The app version	"1.1.2"
name	string	The app name	"Roku Developers"

File metadata
The metadata object contains the following fields that provide information about the JSON file generated for the monitoring session:
Name	Type	Description	Example
uuid	string	A randomly-generated Version 4 unique user ID (UUID).	cd7cbbeb-c4a7-46dc-ab9f-fdeb90523481
created_at	number	A unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when the file was created.	1657721930416
started_at	number	A unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when the monitoring session was started.	1657721930416
version	number	The file version.	4

Session information
The session object contains the static memory usage limits of the test app and the live resource usage statistics generated during the monitoring session.
Static object
The static object contains the following persistent data:
Name	Type	Unit	Description
foreground_limit	number/null	Bytes	The maximum amount of DRAM that may be used by the app when browsing and selecting content in the app UI and during playback. If an app exceeds the limit displayed in the app system memory usage pane while running in the foreground, the Roku OS terminates the app. The foreground limit varies by device, and it is subject to change.

On devices that do not support per-app memory limits, the Roku Resource Monitor displays "N/A". The Roku OS, however, does terminate apps running in the foreground when specific system memory levels are reached on those devices.
The foreground limit may be decreased in the near future; therefore, apps should consume only 75% of the displayed limit. The reduced limit will be enforced by the Roku OS in the near future.
background_limit	number/null	Bytes	The maximum amount of DRAM that may be used by the app while running in the background (this limit is also applicable for apps that have integrated Instant Resume). If an app exceeds the limit displayed in the app system memory usage pane while running in the background, the Roku OS terminates the app. The Roku OS also terminates apps running in the background when specific system memory levels are reached.

On devices that do not support per-app memory limits, the Roku Resource Monitor displays "N/A". The Roku OS, however, does terminate apps running in the background when specific system memory levels are reached on those devices.
The background limit may be decreased in the near future; therefore, apps should consume a maximum of 100 MB of DRAM while running in the background. The reduced limit will be enforced by the Roku OS in the near future. See Data management and Memory management for best practices on allocating resources.

Live
The live object contains the following objects for the resource usage statistics generated during the monitoring session:
Name	Type	Description
bs_objects	array	Array of points that include BrightScripted objects sorted by groups:
Name Type Unit Description timestamp number Bytes Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained groups array N/A Array of objects that includes:

Name Type Unit Description Name string Bytes Name of group. Id string Bytes ID of the group. Objects count number Bytes Count of object in the group. Objects array - Array of objects that includes the count , name , and memory of each object. Objects memory number Bytes Memory size of objects in the group.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained	groups	array	N/A	Array of objects that includes:

Name Type Unit Description Name string Bytes Name of group. Id string Bytes ID of the group. Objects count number Bytes Count of object in the group. Objects array - Array of objects that includes the count , name , and memory of each object. Objects memory number Bytes Memory size of objects in the group.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	Name	string	Bytes	Name of group.	Id	string	Bytes	ID of the group.	Objects count	number	Bytes	Count of object in the group.	Objects	array	-	Array of objects that includes the count , name , and memory of each object.	Objects memory	number	Bytes	Memory size of objects in the group.
Name	Type	Unit	Description
timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained
groups	array	N/A	Array of objects that includes:

Name Type Unit Description Name string Bytes Name of group. Id string Bytes ID of the group. Objects count number Bytes Count of object in the group. Objects array - Array of objects that includes the count , name , and memory of each object. Objects memory number Bytes Memory size of objects in the group.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	Name	string	Bytes	Name of group.	Id	string	Bytes	ID of the group.	Objects count	number	Bytes	Count of object in the group.	Objects	array	-	Array of objects that includes the count , name , and memory of each object.	Objects memory	number	Bytes	Memory size of objects in the group.
Name	Type	Unit	Description
Name	string	Bytes	Name of group.
Id	string	Bytes	ID of the group.
Objects count	number	Bytes	Count of object in the group.
Objects	array	-	Array of objects that includes the count , name , and memory of each object.
Objects memory	number	Bytes	Memory size of objects in the group.
channel_system_memory_usage	array	Array of points for the following system memory usage metrics generated over time:
Name Type Unit Description timestamp number Bytes Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained used number Bytes Number/null. Amount of used memory (sum of resident and swap) by the app resident number Bytes Number/null. Amount of resident memory in use by the app (sum of shared, anonymous and file-backed memory) swap number Bytes Number/null. Amount of swap memory in use by the app anon number Bytes Number/null. Amount of anonymous memory in use by the app file number Bytes Number/null. Amount of file-backed memory in use by the app shared number Bytes Number/null. Amount of shared memory in use by the app	Name	Type	Unit	Description	timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained	used	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of used memory (sum of resident and swap) by the app	resident	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of resident memory in use by the app (sum of shared, anonymous and file-backed memory)	swap	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of swap memory in use by the app	anon	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of anonymous memory in use by the app	file	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of file-backed memory in use by the app	shared	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of shared memory in use by the app
Name	Type	Unit	Description
timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained
used	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of used memory (sum of resident and swap) by the app
resident	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of resident memory in use by the app (sum of shared, anonymous and file-backed memory)
swap	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of swap memory in use by the app
anon	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of anonymous memory in use by the app
file	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of file-backed memory in use by the app
shared	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of shared memory in use by the app
channel_cpu_usage	array	Array of points for the following CPU usage metrics generated over time:
Name Type Unit Description timestamp number Bytes Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained total number Percent Number/null. The total CPU usage percentage (sum of user and kernel) by the app user number Percent Number/null. User space CPU usage percentage by the app sys number Percent Number/null. Kernel space CPU usage percentage by the app	Name	Type	Unit	Description	timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained	total	number	Percent	Number/null. The total CPU usage percentage (sum of user and kernel) by the app	user	number	Percent	Number/null. User space CPU usage percentage by the app	sys	number	Percent	Number/null. Kernel space CPU usage percentage by the app
Name	Type	Unit	Description
timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained
total	number	Percent	Number/null. The total CPU usage percentage (sum of user and kernel) by the app
user	number	Percent	Number/null. User space CPU usage percentage by the app
sys	number	Percent	Number/null. Kernel space CPU usage percentage by the app
channel_graphics_memory_usage	array	Array of points for the following graphics memory usage metrics generated over time:
Name Type Unit Description timestamp number Bytes Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained texture number Bytes Number/null. Amount of texture memory in use by the app system number Bytes Number/null. Amount of system memory in use by the app bitmaps array N/A Array of objects that includes the following bitmap data: Name Type Unit Description bpp number Bytes The bits per pixel (bpp) of the bitmap. height number Bytes The height of the bitmap in pixels. width number Bytes The width of the bitmap in pixels. size number Bytes The size of the bitmap in bytes. name string Bytes The URL path of the bitmap.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained	texture	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of texture memory in use by the app	system	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of system memory in use by the app	bitmaps	array	N/A	Array of objects that includes the following bitmap data: Name Type Unit Description bpp number Bytes The bits per pixel (bpp) of the bitmap. height number Bytes The height of the bitmap in pixels. width number Bytes The width of the bitmap in pixels. size number Bytes The size of the bitmap in bytes. name string Bytes The URL path of the bitmap.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	bpp	number	Bytes	The bits per pixel (bpp) of the bitmap.	height	number	Bytes	The height of the bitmap in pixels.	width	number	Bytes	The width of the bitmap in pixels.	size	number	Bytes	The size of the bitmap in bytes.	name	string	Bytes	The URL path of the bitmap.
Name	Type	Unit	Description
timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained
texture	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of texture memory in use by the app
system	number	Bytes	Number/null. Amount of system memory in use by the app
bitmaps	array	N/A	Array of objects that includes the following bitmap data: Name Type Unit Description bpp number Bytes The bits per pixel (bpp) of the bitmap. height number Bytes The height of the bitmap in pixels. width number Bytes The width of the bitmap in pixels. size number Bytes The size of the bitmap in bytes. name string Bytes The URL path of the bitmap.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	bpp	number	Bytes	The bits per pixel (bpp) of the bitmap.	height	number	Bytes	The height of the bitmap in pixels.	width	number	Bytes	The width of the bitmap in pixels.	size	number	Bytes	The size of the bitmap in bytes.	name	string	Bytes	The URL path of the bitmap.
Name	Type	Unit	Description
bpp	number	Bytes	The bits per pixel (bpp) of the bitmap.
height	number	Bytes	The height of the bitmap in pixels.
width	number	Bytes	The width of the bitmap in pixels.
size	number	Bytes	The size of the bitmap in bytes.
name	string	Bytes	The URL path of the bitmap.
channel_graph_metrics	array	Array of points for the following SceneGraph metrics generated over time (foreground and background):
Name Type Unit Description timestamp number Bytes Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained total_nodes number Bytes Number/null. Total number of nodes in the channel total_memory number Bytes Number/null. Nodes array - Array of objects that includes the following fields: Name Type Unit Description Name string Bytes Name of the node Count number Bytes Count of the node Memory number Bytes Memory size of the node	Name	Type	Unit	Description	timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained	total_nodes	number	Bytes	Number/null. Total number of nodes in the channel	total_memory	number	Bytes	Number/null.	Nodes	array	-	Array of objects that includes the following fields: Name Type Unit Description Name string Bytes Name of the node Count number Bytes Count of the node Memory number Bytes Memory size of the node	Name	Type	Unit	Description	Name	string	Bytes	Name of the node	Count	number	Bytes	Count of the node	Memory	number	Bytes	Memory size of the node
Name	Type	Unit	Description
timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained
total_nodes	number	Bytes	Number/null. Total number of nodes in the channel
total_memory	number	Bytes	Number/null.
Nodes	array	-	Array of objects that includes the following fields: Name Type Unit Description Name string Bytes Name of the node Count number Bytes Count of the node Memory number Bytes Memory size of the node	Name	Type	Unit	Description	Name	string	Bytes	Name of the node	Count	number	Bytes	Count of the node	Memory	number	Bytes	Memory size of the node
Name	Type	Unit	Description
Name	string	Bytes	Name of the node
Count	number	Bytes	Count of the node
Memory	number	Bytes	Memory size of the node
graphics_rendering_frame_rate	array	Array of points for the following graphics rendering frame rate data generated over time (foreground and background): Name Type Unit Description timestamp number Bytes Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained fps number Count Recent number of rendered graphics frames per seconds	Name	Type	Unit	Description	timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained	fps	number	Count	Recent number of rendered graphics frames per seconds
Name	Type	Unit	Description
timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained
fps	number	Count	Recent number of rendered graphics frames per seconds
sgrendezvous	array	Array of points for the following rendezvous event data generated over time (foreground and background): Name Type Unit Description timestamp number Bytes Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained. total_time number Bytes The total time spent in rendezvous events during each sampling interval. drop_ count number Bytes The number of rendezvous events that were dropped because the event queue was full. count number Bytes The number of rendezvous events during each sampling interval items array N/A Array of objects that includes the following rendezvous event information: Name Type Unit Description Id number Bytes The unique ID of the rendezvous event. start number Bytes Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event. end number Bytes Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event. line_number number Bytes Number/null. The line number of the rendezvous event. name string Bytes The source of the rendezvous event.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained.	total_time	number	Bytes	The total time spent in rendezvous events during each sampling interval.	drop_ count	number	Bytes	The number of rendezvous events that were dropped because the event queue was full.	count	number	Bytes	The number of rendezvous events during each sampling interval	items	array	N/A	Array of objects that includes the following rendezvous event information: Name Type Unit Description Id number Bytes The unique ID of the rendezvous event. start number Bytes Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event. end number Bytes Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event. line_number number Bytes Number/null. The line number of the rendezvous event. name string Bytes The source of the rendezvous event.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	Id	number	Bytes	The unique ID of the rendezvous event.	start	number	Bytes	Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event.	end	number	Bytes	Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event.	line_number	number	Bytes	Number/null. The line number of the rendezvous event.	name	string	Bytes	The source of the rendezvous event.
Name	Type	Unit	Description
timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained.
total_time	number	Bytes	The total time spent in rendezvous events during each sampling interval.
drop_ count	number	Bytes	The number of rendezvous events that were dropped because the event queue was full.
count	number	Bytes	The number of rendezvous events during each sampling interval
items	array	N/A	Array of objects that includes the following rendezvous event information: Name Type Unit Description Id number Bytes The unique ID of the rendezvous event. start number Bytes Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event. end number Bytes Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event. line_number number Bytes Number/null. The line number of the rendezvous event. name string Bytes The source of the rendezvous event.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	Id	number	Bytes	The unique ID of the rendezvous event.	start	number	Bytes	Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event.	end	number	Bytes	Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event.	line_number	number	Bytes	Number/null. The line number of the rendezvous event.	name	string	Bytes	The source of the rendezvous event.
Name	Type	Unit	Description
Id	number	Bytes	The unique ID of the rendezvous event.
start	number	Bytes	Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event.
end	number	Bytes	Number/null. The number of milliseconds that elapsed during the rendezvous event.
line_number	number	Bytes	Number/null. The line number of the rendezvous event.
name	string	Bytes	The source of the rendezvous event.
fw_beacons	array	Array of app and media events (signal beacons) that have occurred on the app. Each event has a Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) marking when the event occurred. The timestamp has a number type provided in bytes . See Measuring app performance for detailed descriptions of these events.

Channel events: app_compile_initiate / app_compile_complete app_load_initiate / app_load_complete app_splash_initiate / app_splash_complete app_resume_initiate / app_resume_complete app_suspend_initiate / app_suspend_complete app_exit_initiate / app_exit_complete

Media events: vod_start_initiate / vod_start_complete epg_launch_initiate / epg_launch_complete live_channel_change_initiate / live_channel_change_complete
registry_usage	array	Array of points for the channel registry entries.
Name Type Unit Description Timestamp number Bytes Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained. Used number Bytes Number/null. The amount of storage currently used on the device. Sections array - Array of objects that includes:
Name Type Unit Description Name string Bytes Name of section Items array - Items in the section. Each item includes the key (string) for that section.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	Timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained.	Used	number	Bytes	Number/null. The amount of storage currently used on the device.	Sections	array	-	Array of objects that includes:
Name Type Unit Description Name string Bytes Name of section Items array - Items in the section. Each item includes the key (string) for that section.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	Name	string	Bytes	Name of section	Items	array	-	Items in the section. Each item includes the key (string) for that section.
Name	Type	Unit	Description
Timestamp	number	Bytes	Unix timestamp in milliseconds (13-digit) when data was obtained.
Used	number	Bytes	Number/null. The amount of storage currently used on the device.
Sections	array	-	Array of objects that includes:
Name Type Unit Description Name string Bytes Name of section Items array - Items in the section. Each item includes the key (string) for that section.	Name	Type	Unit	Description	Name	string	Bytes	Name of section	Items	array	-	Items in the section. Each item includes the key (string) for that section.
Name	Type	Unit	Description
Name	string	Bytes	Name of section
Items	array	-	Items in the section. Each item includes the key (string) for that section.

Monitoring file example
Click here to download a sample RRM 4.1 monitoring file.
Change log
v4.1 (June 16, 2025): Updated bs_objects and channel_graph_metrics objects.
v4.0 (March 12, 2025): Updated bs_objects field. Updated sample file.
v3.1 (September 24, 2024): Added fields for tracking BrightScript memory allocation..
v3.0 (April 11, 2024): Added objects for tracking BrightScript memory allocation.
v2.0 (March 28, 2023): Added objects for tracking rendezvous events, device registry usage, and graphics frame rendering rate. Added objects for tracking app and media events.
v1.0 (September 11, 2022): Initial release. Includes objects for tracking system memory, graphics memory, CPU, and SceneGraph node usage.